CALLED OR THE
REGULAR BULLETIN BOARD
OF APPEALS MEETING FOR FEBRUARY
20TH, 2025 AND ROLL CALL ROLL
CALL.
PAUL DARLING HERE ROBERT HART
HERE.
DAVID ARNDT STAFF ABSENT
KEVIN COX HERE WHO FLOCK HERE
STAFF MICHAEL LEMIEUX HERE AND
JULIA HARVEY HERE CALL ROLL
CALL HAS BEEN TAKEN.
OK, THANK YOU.
ITEM ON THE AGENDA AFTER ALL.
CALL THIS PUBLIC COMMENTARY
GENERAL GENERAL COMMENTARY
CLOSED PUBLIC COMMENTARY NEXT
TIME AS YOU PULL THE AGENDA,
CAN WE HAVE SOMEBODY MAKE A
MOTION TO AMEND OR APPROVE THE
AGENDA?
I THINK IT WAS A VERY I ALL
RIGHT AGENDA THIS PAST.
THE NEXT ITEM THE AGENDA IS THE
APPROVAL MINUTES FROM THE
DECEMBER 19, 2003 FORUM MEETING
ANY COMMENTS ON THOSE?
IF NOT, CAN WE HAVE A MOTION
MOVED TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
BACK AND THOSE IN FAVOR?
I APPROVED
NEXT ITEM ON THE
AGENDA APPEALS ACTIONS AND SHOW
CAUSE HEARING AND WE HAVE ONE
APPEAL TODAY THOUGH THE PROCESS
OF HAVE THE APPLICANT COME UP
WILL HAVE THE STAFF AND THE
REPORT A RECOMMENDATION ON THE
ON THE REQUEST THAT THE
CURRENTLY APPLICANT CAN PRESENT
THEIR CASE AND THEN THE BOARD
CAN ASK ANY QUESTIONS THEY HAVE
YOU CAN SAY UP THERE AND MAKE
SURE SIGN IN WHEN YOU'RE UP
THERE AND THEN WE'LL MAKE
MOTION
.
SO THE REQUEST IS RELIEF FROM
SECTION ONE ZERO THREE ZERO
POINT THREE OF THE TWENTY
FIFTEEN MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE .
THE PROPERTY OF TWO HUNDRED
NORTH STATE.
IT'S A MULTIFAMILY BUILDING AND
OUR TWO IT WAS BUILT IN 1930.
A PERMIT WAS ISSUED TEN EIGHT
TWENTY FOUR FOR WORK DESCRIBED
AS INTERIOR RENOVATION ONLY NO
CHANGES TO EXTERIOR DOORS OR
WINDOWS FOOTPRINT OF BUILDING
STAYS THE SAME WITH MINOR
CHANGES TO INTERIOR LAYOUT AT
THE PLAN REVIEW IT WAS NOTED
THE BASEMENT WINDOWS DO NOT
MEET THE MAN STANDARD FOR
EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE
OPENINGS.
THE PLAN SHOWS SIX BEDROOMS
BEING ADDED TO THE BASEMENT
WHICH IS CURRENTLY INDICATED AS
STORAGE AND LAUNDRY.
THE PLAN WAS REQUIRED TO BE
REVISED BECAUSE THE WINDOWS ON
THE PLANET EXCEED THE FORTY
FOUR INCH MAXIMUM REQUIRED
HEIGHT FROM THE FLOOR IN
SECTION ONE ZERO THREE ZERO
POINT THREE.
THE APPLICANT HAS INDICATED
THAT THEY BELIEVE THE TRUE
INTENT OF THE CODE HAS BEEN
MISINTERPRETED IN THE LANDING
AND STEPS SHOULD BE ACCEPTED AT
THIS LOCATION.
STAFF RECOMMENDS THIS
APPLICATION BE DENIED.
IT DOESN'T MEET THE STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL.
THE CODE HAS HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRETED.
THE PROVISIONS OF THE CODE DO
APPLY AND THE PROPOSED
CONDITION IS LESS SAFE THAN THE
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION
TEN THIRTEEN POINT THREE OF THE
MICHIGAN BUILDING CODE SECTION
STATES THAT THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT
FROM FLOOR EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND
RESCUE OPENINGS SHALL HAVE THE
BOTTOM OF THE CLEAR OPENING
THAT GREATER THAN FORTY FOUR
INCHES MEASURED FROM THE FLOOR
THE PETITIONER STATES AT
SECTION ONE ZERO THREE ZERO
POINT THREE SPECIFIES THAT THE
BOTTOM OF A CLEAR OPENING MUST
NOT BE MORE THAN FORTY FOUR
INCHES ABOVE THE FLOOR.
THE FLOOR WHILE THE TERM FLOOR
IS UNDEFINED IN THE CODE IT IS
COMMONLY UNDERSTOOD TO INCLUDE
ANY WALKING SURFACE INTENDED
FOR REGULAR USE SUCH AS
LANDING'S WHICH IS AN INTEGRAL
TO THE EGRESS SYSTEM SECTION
ONE ZERO ONE ZERO POINT SIX TO
THE MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE RECOGNIZED IN LANDING'S AS
CRITICAL WALKING SURFACE
UNDERSCORING OR FUNCTIONAL
EQUIVALENCE TWO FLOORS FOR
SAFETY AND ACCESSIBILITY THE
INTENT OF SECTION ONE ZERO
THREE ZERO POINT THREE IS TO
ENSURE EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND
RESCUE OPENINGS ARE ACCESSIBLE
MEASURED MEASURING FROM
LANDING'S FULFILLS THIS PURPOSE
BY PROVIDING A SAFE STABLE
PLATFORM WHILE ADHERING TO THE
CODES OBJECTIVES.
MOREOVER, THE PRESIDENTS FROM
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR, OTHER
JURISDICTIONS AND PRACTICAL
DESIGN FOR FLEXIBILITY SUPPORT
INTERPRETING FINDINGS AS THE
FLOOR IN COMPLIANCE OF SECTION
ONE ZERO THREE ZERO POINT THREE
WHILE OUR STAFF THINKS THAT
WHILE THE LANDINGS AND FLOORS
ARE NOT DEFINED IN THE
CODE LANDING AND SPECIFIED WHEN
IT IS INTENDED WHEN IT IS THE
INTENT OF THE CODE IS TO ALLOW
SUCH A CONFIGURATION AND IN
EACH INSTANCE SPECIFICS ABOUT
THE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS ARE
PROVIDED LANDING AS MENTIONED
IN THE DEFINITION OF STAIRWAY
WE HAVE THE DEFINITION
OF STAIRWAY TWO EXAMPLES
OF WHEN LANDINGS ARE DESCRIBED
.
THE CODE IS TEN TEN POINT ONE
POINT SIX TEN ELEVEN POINT SIX
IN BOTH OF THESE SITUATIONS THE
MINIMUM DIMENSIONS OF LANDING
AS IS SPECIFIED THERE'S NO ONE
IN THE CODE THAT IT IS STATED
THE LANDING IS ACCEPTABLE AT
THE REQUIRED EMERGENCY ESCAPE
AND RESCUE OPENING BECAUSE THIS
IS ABSENT THERE'S ALSO NO
SPECIFICATIONS GIVEN TO THE
SIZE AND CONFIGURATION OF SUCH
A LANDING AS FAR AS THE TERMS
NOT BEING DEFINED, WE'RE TERMS
THROUGH METHOD AUTHORIZED BY
THIS SECTION.
SUCH TERMS SHALL HAVE
ORDINARILY ACCEPTED MEANINGS
SUCH AS THE CONTEXT IMPLIES
FROM WEBSTER'S DICTIONARY
LANDING IS A LEVEL PART OF A
STAIRCASE AS AT THE END OF A
FLIGHT OF STAIRS AND THEN A
FLOOR IS DEFINED AS A LEVEL
BASE OF A ROOM BASED ON THE
DEFINITIONS IN THE CODE SECTION
PROVIDED AT LANDING IN A FLOOR
NOT INTERCHANGEABLE TERMS.
FURTHERMORE, IT IS NOT COMMONLY
UNDERSTOOD THAT A FLOOR IS ANY
WALKING SURFACE INCLUDING THE
LANDING IN THE TWO TERMS HAVE
DIFFERENT APPLICATIONS AND
MEANINGS.
THE APPLICANT STATES WHILE ONE
IN FOUR POINT ONE GRANTS THE
AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION
IN CODE INTERPRETATION THIS
AUTHORITY SHOULD ALIGN WITH THE
NBC'S INTENT TO PRIORITIZE
SAFETY AND PRACTICALITY.
I RESPECTFULLY REQUEST THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT TO
RECONSIDER ITS STANCE ON THE
PERMIT OF THE USE OF LANDINGS
AS FLOOR FOR COMPLIANCE WITH
THE FORTY FOUR INCH REQUIREMENT
OF SECTION ONE ZERO THREE ZERO
POINT THREE ENSURING ALIGNMENT
WITH THE CODES TEXT INTENT AND
PURPOSE WHILE PRESERVING THE
HISTORIC INTEGRITY OF THE
PROPERTY.
WHAT SECTION ONE HUNDRED FOUR
POINT ONE OF THE CODE ALSO
STATES IS THAT THE BUILDING
OFFICIAL IS AUTHORIZED TO
DIRECT AND ENFORCE THE
PROVISIONS OF THIS CODE .
THE BUILDING OFFICIALS HAVE HAD
THE AUTHORITY TO RENDER
INTERPRETATIONS THE CODE AND
ADOPT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
IN ORDER TO CLARIFY THE
APPLICATION OF ITS PROVISIONS.
SUCH INTERPRETATIONS POLICIES
SEIZURES SHALL BE IN COMPLIANCE
WITH THE INTENT AND PURPOSE
OF THIS CODE .
SUCH POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
SHALL HAVE THE EFFECT SHALL NOT
HAVE THE EFFECT OF WAIVING
REQUIREMENTS SPECIFIC WE
PROVIDED FOR IN THIS CODE WHILE
THE APPLICANT IS FOCUSED ON THE
AUTHORITY OF THE BUILDING
OFFICIAL TO RENDER
INTERPRETATIONS, THE BUILDING
OFFICIALS ARE AUTHORIZED TO
DIRECT AND FORCE THE PROVISIONS
OF THE CODE .
SUCH POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
SHALL SHALL NOT HAVE THE EFFECT
OF WAIVING REQUIREMENTS
SPECIFIC BE PROVIDED FOR IN THE
CODE THE MAXIMUM 44 HEIGHT TO
FLOOR IS A PROVISION PROVIDED
IN THE
CODE .
THE PETITIONERS FOCUSED ON ONE
ELEMENT OF THE REQUIRED
EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE
OPENING.
THAT FOCUS HAS BEEN ON THE
RESIDENT WHO WILL BE SLEEPING
IN THAT SPACE.
THE COMPONENT THAT HAS NOT BEEN
MENTIONED IS THE RESCUE
COMPONENT IN A RESCUE SITUATION
AN EMERGENCY RESPONDER WOULD
ENTER WITH THE EXPECTATION THAT
THE OPENING MEETS THE
SPECIFICATIONS OF BOTH THE
TWENTY FIFTEEN NBC AND THE
TWENTY FIFTEEN INTERNATIONAL
FIRE CODE WHICH IN SECTION ONE
ZERO THREE ZERO MIRRORS THE
LANGUAGE OF THE TWENTY FIFTEEN
NBC STATING THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT
FROM THE FLOOR EMERGENCY ESCAPE
AND RESCUE OPENINGS SHALL HAVE
THE BOTTOM OF THE CLEAR OPENING
NOT GREATER THAN FORTY FOUR
INCHES MEASURED FROM THE FLOOR.
THE CONFIGURATION PROPOSED BY
THE APPLICANT IS UNSAFE AS THE
EXPECTATION OF ANYONE USING THE
EMERGENCY ESCAPE AND RESCUE
OPENING IS THAT THEY'D BE
ENTERING ONTO A FLOOR AS
THERE'S NO MENTION OF A LANDING
IN THE BUILDING OR FIRE CODE .
THE PROPOSED CONFIGURATION
WOULD CREATE AN UNSAFE
SITUATION AN EMERGENCY IF
EMERGENCY PERSONNEL MUST ENTER
AN ATTEMPT TO RESCUE THE
CONFIGURATION WOULD NOT MEET
THE EXPECTATIONS OF A
CODE COMPLIANT BUILDING.
THANK YOU.
NOTHING WOULD COME UP AND
PRESENT YOUR CASE AND THEN
STATE IF YOU'RE FOLLOWING YOUR
EUROPE AGAIN YOU TALKED ABOUT
YOU'RE ASKING FOR A BASED ON
THE INTERPRETATION OF CODE.
IT'S DON'T LIKE WHAT YOU'RE
ASKING FOR.
I'M SURE YOU HAVE THREE WAYS
YOU CAN ASK FOR VARIOUS
INTERPRETATION OF THE CODE IS
NOT BEING PROPERLY MET YOU
PROVIDING SOMETHING EQUALLY
GOOD OR BETTER OR THE
CODE DOESN'T APPLY.
SO YOU SOUND LIKE YOU'RE HAPPY
YOU'RE APPLYING FOR ONE THAT'S
BASED WITH THE INTENT TO ENTER
THE INTERPRETATION.
THE CODE IS WHAT YOU'RE YES.
THE INTERPRETATION OF THE
CODE .
OK, SO I'M HERE SCOTT CLAUSON
HERE.
TWO HUNDRED OUR STATE
APPLICATION I'M HERE BECAUSE I
BELIEVE THE CODE WITH REGARD TO
THE EGRESS WINDOW THAT SECTION
ONE ZERO THREE ZERO POINT THREE
HAS BEEN MIS INTERPRETED THAT
ALLOWS THE STILL HEIGHT OF THE
WINDOW HAS TO BE FORTY FOUR
INCHES FROM THE FLOOR AND AS
MIKE SAID, FLOOR IS NOT DEFINED
IN THE CODE BOOK THE DEFINITION
OF FLOOR BUT THEY DO HAVE FLOOR
AREA DEFINED THERE IN THE FLOOR
AREA ACROSS THE FLOOR AREA
WITHIN THE INSIDE PERIMETER,
THE EXTERIOR WALLS OF THE
BUILDING UNDER CONSIDERATION
EXCLUSIVE EVENT SHEFF'S COURTS
WITHOUT DEDUCTION FOR
CORRIDORS, STAIRWAYS, RAMPS,
CLOSETS, THICKNESS OF INTERIOR
WALLS, COLUMNS OR OTHER
FEATURES AND GOES OUT A LITTLE
BIT MORE.
BUT IT'S BASICALLY SAYING THE
FLOOR AREAS WITHIN THE EXTERIOR
WALLS CONSIDER THE FLOOR AREA
AND THEN IT ALSO DEFINES FLOOR
AREA NOT WHICH IS THE ACTUAL
OCCUPIED AREA NOT INCLUDING
UNOCCUPIED ACCESSORIES SUCH AS
CORRIDORS, STAIRWAYS, RAMPS,
TOILETS, MECHANICAL ROOMS AND
CLOSETS.
THE CITY ITSELF AND ITS
ORDINANCE.
CHAPTER ONE OF FIVE HOUSING
ACTUALLY ALLOWS FOR A MAXIMUM
STILL HEIGHT OF FIFTY FOUR
INCHES ABOVE THE FLOOR IF THE
EXISTING HEIGHT IS GREATER THAN
FIFTY FOUR INCHES ABOVE THE
FLOOR A PLATFORM
STRUCTURE OR
PIECE OF FURNITURE NOT
INCLUDING A SHELF PERMANENTLY
FIXED TO THE STRUCTURE WILL BE
ACCEPTABLE PROVIDED THAT IT HAS
A MINIMUM DEPTH OF TWELVE
INCHES MINIMUM WIDTH OF 20
INCHES AND IS A MAXIMUM
OF EIGHTEEN INCHES ABOVE THE
FLOOR.
>> I THINK OF GETTING HUNG UP
ON LANDING WHICH IS ALSO NOT
DEFINED IN THE CODE .
MOST PEOPLE THINK OF LANDINGS
AS PART OF STAIRWAYS BUT WE ARE
USING WE'RE BASICALLY USING AN
ELEVATED AREA OF THE FLOOR TO
GET US TO OUR FORTY FOUR INCHES
TO MEET THE EGRESS MAXIMUM
HEIGHT.
THIS PARTICULAR ONE IS IN A
HISTORIC BUILDING SO WE CAN'T
MAKE ALTERATIONS TO THE
WINDOWS.
IT IS REHABILITATION OF REMODEL
.
IT'S ALL INTERIOR WORK.
WE'RE NOT CHANGING THE WINDOWS
.
WE'RE NOT ALLOWED TO SO SO LIKE
I SAID I THINK WE'RE GETTING
HUNG UP ON A FLOOR HEIGHTH
BEING IN AN EMAIL THAT WAS FROM
WHITE TO ME FROM ACTUALLY IN
ANY WAY IT SAYS IT SAYS A
MEASUREMENT OF THE FORTY FOUR
INCHES HEIGHT IS REQUIRED TO BE
FROM THE FLOOR ELEVATION OF THE
OVERALL FLOOR PLATE SO NOT
INTERMEDIATE ELEVATED LANDING'S
OK SO WE GET MORE TO KEEP GOING
SO YEAH SO WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT BASICALLY WHEN WE WERE
HAVING DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THIS
BEFORE WE GOT TO THIS POINT
WE'RE BASICALLY SAYING THAT THE
FLOOR HAS TO BE ONE LEVEL AND
WE KNOW IN THE SEVENTIES AND
STUFF HAS HAD MULTIPLE LEVELS
TODAY I'M SURE THERE'S PLENTY
OF HOUSES THAT HAVE STEP UP
STEP UP IT'S AN AREA SO I DON'T
THINK YOU CAN CALL THAT THAT
FLOOR PLATE LIKE THE POINT THAT
YOU MEASURE FROM SO YOU SEE
THEY MIKE READ WHAT I HAD
TURNED IN BUT BUT THAT'S THE
CITY HAS ALLOWED THIS.
WE HAVE DONE STEPS BEFORE IN
FRONT OF WINDOWS.
WE HAVE DONE ELEVATED FLOORS IN
FRONT OF WINDOWS BEFORE.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THAT
I'VE COME ACROSS WHERE THIS HAS
GOT KIND OF KICKED THAT SO
THAT'S WHY WE'RE HERE ASKING
FOR I GUESS THE VARIANCE OR
INTERPRETATION OF THE CODE FEEL
LIKE I'M FORGETTING SOMETHING
BUT OH AND THIS IS THIS IS ONE
THAT WE DID THIS SUMMER.
I CAN PASS IT AROUND TO YOU IF
YOU WANT BUT THIS EGRESS WINDOW
IS ACTUALLY A SKYLIGHT WHICH IS
ALLOWED.
BUT WE ACTUALLY HAVE A BUILT
LIKE BOOKCASE SO THAT YOU CAN
GET UP TO IT BECAUSE IT WAS
ABOVE THE FORTY FOUR INCHES AND
THIS WAS APPROVED I GUESS
THAT'S OK.
THANK YOU.
THE BOARD HAVE QUESTIONS FOR
THE APPLICANT.
COULD YOU ELABORATE ON THE
LAYOUT OF THE PLAN THAT YOU'VE
GOT HERE.
THERE ARE SIX BEDROOMS.
YES.
AND THEN THERE'S A LIVING ROOM
DINING ROOM LIVING ROOMS GOT A
DOOR ON IT.
THE DINING ROOM HAS GOT DOORS
ON AND THERE'S A FULL BATH
ATTACHED TO IT.
IS THIS MEANT TO BE POSSIBLY
ANOTHER BEDROOM OR A LIVING
SPACE NOW THERE'S SIX SIX
BEDROOMS.
THE BASEMENT CURRENTLY WAS ONE
APARTMENT.
A PORTION OF IT WAS ALREADY AN
APARTMENT AND THEN THE OTHER
PART WAS STORAGE AND THEN LIKE
MECHANICAL AREA.
>> SO THAT'S MY QUESTION IS THE
FULL BASEMENT IN THE NEW PLAN
IS THAT CONSIDERED AN APARTMENT
?
YEAH, THAT'LL JUST BE ONE
APARTMENT AND THAT'S TWO EXITS
IS THAT I MEAN I HAVE TO ASK IS
THERE A REASON WHY THE LIVING
ROOM DINING ROOM AREA HAS A BED
AREA HAS A BATHTUB OR SHOWER?
I THINK IT'S BECAUSE ALL THE
BED EACH BEDROOM HAS ITS OWN
BATHROOM THERE AND THIS IS JUST
LIKE A GENERAL ONE FOR ANYBODY
TO USE.
>> OK, AND THEN COULD YOU WHAT
IS THE PROPOSED DEPTH FOR THE
FOR THE STEP-UP?
I THINK THE STEP UP ONLY NEEDS
SEVEN THREE QUARTER NO NO I
MEAN FROM THE WINDOW BATH WHILE
WE WERE DRAWING WE WERE
BASICALLY SUBMITTING LIKE THREE
BY THREE UP TO THREE FEET.
YEAH
.
>> IS IT MADE OUT OF WOOD.
YEAH AND IT'S PERMANENTLY
ATTACHED SO IT'S IT'S IT'LL BE
COVERED WITH THE SAME FLOORING
AND AND EVERYTHING.
>> SO WHEN YOU'RE STANDING ON A
PLATFORM YOU DON'T HAVE THE
REQUIRED HEADROOM, YOU DON'T
HAVE SIX EIGHT BEDROOM OR
HEADROOM, YOU'RE ON THE
PLATFORM TO GET TO BE CRUSHED.
>> YOU KNOW WE HAVE ENOUGH
HEADROOM WHAT'S THE CEILING
HEIGHT IN THAT AREA?
>> IT'S LIKE EIGHT FOOT SIX TO
THE TOP THE WINDOW AND YOU'RE
COMING UP APART ONE FOR TWO.
OK, I GUESS I DON'T KNOW
SPECIFICALLY BUT I DO KNOW THAT
THIS IS WHAT WE HAVE FOR
ANYTHING.
>> YEAH,
YEAH.
LIKE THE WINDOWS AREN'T
CHANGING.
THE LIGHT OF THE WINDOWS IS THE
SAME IN THE BOTTOM RIGHT
THROUGH THE WINDOW IT WOULD BE
THE SAME
THE SYSTEM THE WINDOWS
ARE REWORKING THEM CAN BE
DIGGER'S REQUIREMENTS.
YEAH THAT WAS THEY'RE NOT BEING
REWORKED THAT WAS ACTUALLY THEY
CAN'T BE REWORKED SO THERE WAS
ACTUALLY A REVISION AFTER THE
PLAN THAT YOU'RE LOOKING AT BUT
THE WINDOWS ARE NOT BEING
REWORKED SO THE SAME THE SAME
SIZE BUT THEY'RE STILL THEY
WERE CASING BEFORE IN OUR NEW
CASE THEY'RE BUT NOW YES.
YOU'RE ABLE TO IF YOU GO
THROUGH THE STEP AND OUT THE
WINDOW YOU'RE IN THE WINDOW.
WELL WHICH YOU WOULD THEN NOT
HAVE TO CLIMB OUT OR YOU
WOULDN'T NEED ANY ASSISTANCE
AND YOU OUT OF THE WINDOW WELL
TO ESCAPE THE BUILDING.
CORRECT.
IT'S A GREAT WINDOW.
YES.
YEAH IT'S REDECORATED
SO THE
WINDOWS SO WHAT ARE THE WINDOWS
RIGHT NOW IF BECAUSE THEY HAVE
TO MEET A PARTICULAR STANDARD
TO FUNCTION AND EGRESS WINDOW
ARE THEY CASEMENT'S YES.
SO THE CASEMENT'S AND THEY MEET
THE OPENING WIDTH AND HEIGHT
THAT'S REQUIRED FOR AN EGRESS
WINDOW.
>> YES.
SO IS THERE A REASON WHY THERE
WAS A NOTE THAT THEY WERE GOING
TO BE REWORKED BY I DON'T KNOW
THE ARCHITECT PUT THAT IN THERE
ORIGINALLY BUT WE TOOK IT THERE
ARE A COUPLE OF WINDOWS THAT
ARE NOT THE SAME.
SOME OF THOSE ARE STARK
WINDOWS.
SOME ARE REPLACEMENT WINDOWS
AND THERE'S SOME ALSO WOOD
CASEMENT WINDOWS IN THERE ALSO.
SO THERE'S A VARIANCE
OF DIFFERENT WINDOWS.
IS THERE IS THERE A RULE OR
CODE TO HOW MANY INCHES THE
WINDOW HAS TO BE OFF THE GROUND
FOR OBSTRUCTIONS TO MAXIMUM
FORTY FOR NO OUTSIDE THAT THIS
IS GRADE LEVEL AND THAT'S WHY
WINDOWS ARE MADE BECAUSE I'M
PRETTY SURE THERE'S A SIX INCH
OR AN EIGHT INCH OF A
WATERTIGHT NICE THING OR
EXACTLY LIKE IT'S OFF.
>> AND SO IF THE WINDOWS SWINGS
OUT AND THERE'S BEEN IT GETS
BLOCKED, DEBRIS DOES FALL OVER
LIKE IS IT ALLOWED TO BE
UPGRADED LIKE THAT LIKE OTHERS
I MEAN AND I'M JUST GOING BY
THEIR LINES AND THERE ARE
LEVELS THAT THEY HAVE HERE ON
THE DRAWING YOU I JUST DON'T
KNOW IF THERE WAS THAT'S A
REQUIRED THICKNESS.
I KNOW THAT THERE'S A PLAYER
THAT OPENS UP THE WAY.
SO THERE'S WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
LIKE A WINDOW OPEN TO MENTION
THE SIZE OF THAT MAKE TO
ADDRESSING FROM THE WAY IT'S
SET UP RIGHT NOW THE WINDOW
THERE'S A BRICK SILL.
YEAH.
AND THE GRADE IS ABOUT SIX
INCHES BELOW THE TOP OF THE
BRICK.
SO OK WHEN THE WINDOW OPENS UP
IT'S THE BOTTOM OF THE WINDOWS
ABOUT SIX OR EIGHT INCHES ABOVE
PERFECT GRADE.
YEAH THAT'S RIGHT YEAH YEAH AND
IF IT WAS IF THEY WERE DOWN I
MEAN WE WOULD BE IF YOU CAN DO
A WINDOW WELL AND YOU CAN HAVE
A IF IT'S DEEPER THAN FORTY TWO
INCHES YOU CAN HAVE A LADDER TO
GET OUT OF IT RIGHT SO YEAH
THAT CAN EVEN BE YOU KNOW IT
SEEMS LIKE THE PLATFORM IN
FRONT OF THE WINDOW IS THIS IS
A GOOD OPTION AND I MEAN RENTAL
HOUSING
USES IT OR ALLOWS IT
ALL THE TIME SO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT IS NOT ALLOWING YOU TO
REPLACE THE CASEMENT WINDOW AS
A HISTORIC WOOD WINDOW JUST
DROPPING MILK INSTEAD HOWEVER
TALL IT IS RIGHT NOW THREE FOOT
FOUR ANOTHER SO SO WE DID NOT
PUT IN AN APPLICATION TO DO
THAT BUT I HAVE TALKED TO JILL
ABOUT THOSE WINDOWS PRIOR
BECAUSE IT TOOK A LONG TIME
BECAUSE SOME OF THEM WERE IN
PRETTY BAD SHAPE AND THEY GOT
REPLACED.
A LOT OF THEM GOT REPLACED LIKE
SEVERAL MAYBE EVEN TEN YEARS
AGO AND IT WAS IT TOOK TWO
YEARS TO GET IT APPROVED JUST
THAT PART THEY DON'T LIKE
OBVIOUSLY TO CHANGE THE
ORIGINAL WINDOWS THAT ARE IN
THERE RIGHT.
>> BUT THESE WINDOWS WERE ONLY
TEN YEARS OLD.
THESE WINDOWS ARE TEN YEARS
AGO.
THESE ARE ACTUALLY SOME OF THEM
ARE YEAH.
SOME OF THEM ARE ONLY TEN AND
SOME OF THEM ARE THE ORIGINAL
ERM ACTUALLY THEY'RE NOT
THEY'RE NOT ORIGINAL BUT THEY
WERE PLACED SOMEWHERE MAYBE IN
THE 50S OR YOU CAN JUST TELL BY
HOW THEY'RE ATTACHED IN THE
BUILDING SO I MEAN I KNOW THE
VARIANCE IS FOR THE STEP UP BUT
DO THE WINDOWS COMPLY AS EGRESS
WINDOWS IN THEIR CURRENT STATE
BECAUSE IF THEY DON'T THEN
THERE'S THIS KIND OF A MOOT
DISCUSSION.
I MEAN WHAT USE IS IT TO HAVE A
STEP UP IF YOU CAN'T GET OUT
THE WINDOW?
>> YEAH, WELL WINDOWS WILL
COMPLY.
>> YEAH, WELL HE JUST SAID THEY
WILL FIRST HE SAID THAT WILL
WORK THEN HE SAID THEY'RE NOT
BEING NOW YOU SAID THEY WILL SO
DO THEY.
I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE JUST WE'RE JUST DEALING WITH
THE PLATFORM ISSUE WE'RE JUST
DEALING WITH THE PLATFORM.
CAN YOU THAT'S IT.
I WOULD LIKE TO ADD THAT THIS
IS A CHANGE OF VIEWS THAT THE
THAT'S MY THE QUESTION THE
BASEMENT IS NOT CURRENTLY USED
AS FOR THE ASSAULT, THESE AREAS
THESE AREAS AREN'T USED FOR
SLEEPING ROOMS CURRENTLY SOME
OF THE MORE OF THEM BUT YOU'RE
ADDING SIX, RIGHT THAT AREN'T
CURRENTLY IT WAS ONLY ONE
APARTMENT DOWN THERE THAT TOOK
UP A THIRD OF THE BASEMENT.
>> NOW WE'RE USING THE WHOLE
BASEMENT.
OK, SO ACTUALLY I HAD SOME
QUESTIONS FOR THE CITY.
THIS IS THE CHANGE OF USE.
WHAT DO THEY HAVE TO DO IN
TERMS OF LIFE SAFETY MEASURES
TO MAKE THIS KOSHER?
BUT I DON'T I DIDN'T LOOK INTO
THE ENTIRE PLAN.
I JUST LOOKED AT THE ASPECT
OF THE THAT THEY WERE
REQUESTING RELIEF FROM AS FAR
AS THE CHANGE VIEWS IT WENT
THROUGH REVIEW AND THIS NOTHING
THE OTHER THINGS THAT WERE
INDICATED WERE TAKEN CARE
OF WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THIS
AS I UNDERSTAND.
YES.
SO DOES THAT MEAN THAT THE THAT
SPACE DOESN'T HAVE TO BE
SPRINKLER?
WE ARE SPRINKLER IN THE
BUILDING OR YOUR SPRINKLER IN
THE BUILDING?
YES, WE ARE.
OH SO INCLUDING THE BASEMENT
INCLUDING THE BASEMENT.
>> YES, THE WHOLE BUILDING IS
GETTING SUPPRESSED.
OK, GLAD YOU MENTIONED THAT
BECAUSE IF THAT'S THE CASE WHY
DO THEY HAVE TO EVEN HAVE
EGRESS WINDOWS BECAUSE DOESN'T
THE CODE ALLOW THEM IF THERE
ARE TWO MEANS OF EGRESS AND I
SEE TWO STAIRS AND THE BUILDING
IS SPRINKLERED WHY DO THEY HAVE
TO HAVE YOU PUT US IN THE
BASEMENT?
I THINK MAYBE THE BASEMENT
STILL DOES.
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT ONE SECTION
I'D HAVE TO LOOK YEAH.
THERE'S I KNOW THE EXCEPT
THERE'S THE THERE'S AN
EXCEPTION EXCEPTION THAT YOU'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
I JUST DON'T KNOW THE FULL
IMPLICATION BUT YES YOU'RE WITH
TWO EXITS IN IT BEING SPRINKLER
ACTUALLY WITH TWO AND BEING
SPRINKLER WE WOULDN'T HAVE TO
HAVE AN EGRESS WINDOW BUT I
THINK WHEN I WAS LOOKING
THROUGH THE CODE I JUST SAW
WHERE THE BASEMENT SLEEPING
ROOM SLEEPING DWELLINGS ARE
REQUIRED TO HAVE GRANZOW BUT
I'M NOT YEAH I'M NOT 100 CENT
SURE BECAUSE I JUST KIND
OF YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO YOU'RE IF
YOU DON'T HAVE TWO MINUTES
OF EGRESS OUT OF A BUILDING OUT
OF AN AREA YOU HAVE TO HAVE A
MEANS OF EGRESS IN EACH
SLEEPING ROOM AND THAT'S WHAT
MAKES IT VIABLE RENTABLE USABLE
BEDROOM.
BUT IF YOU HAVE TWO MINUTES
OF EGRESS IN THE BASEMENT AND
IT'S SUPPRESSED, I REALLY DO
THINK YOU'RE RIGHT.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO HAVE AN
EGRESS WINDOWS.
I'M SO IT'S ALL REALLY VOICE
THAT'S THE AVENUE THAT I WOULD
NEED TO VERIFY.
I THINK YOU NEED TO BECAUSE IF
THAT'S THE CASE THEN ALL
OF THIS IS NOT THAN THEY WOULD
HAVE TO YOU KNOW THEY WOULD YOU
KNOW FOR NOW IS THAT BACK.
SO I GUESS MORE QUESTIONS HERE.
WHERE ARE THESE STAIRWELLS?
DO THEY GO OUT TO THE OUTSIDE
OR DO THEY GO TO THE INSIDE?
OUT OF THE BACK IN THE FRONT?
I JUST SEEN THE HOUSE.
>> YEAH.
SO IT GOES UP TO A LANDING AND
IT GOES OUTSIDE BUT TO STAIRWAY
IT'S A SHARED STAIRWAY THAT
GOES TO EACH APARTMENT LEVEL.
YEAH.
SO THE COMMON LEVEL IS ITS OWN
APARTMENT OR IS NO THERE'S
THERE'S FOUR UNITS AND EACH
OF THE OTHER FLOORS SO THERE
WERE ALREADY THERE ALREADY 13
APARTMENTS IN THIS BUILDING AND
THERE'S STILL 13 APARTMENTS IN
THIS BUILDING.
SO THE BASEMENT IS EXPANDING 13
APARTMENTS AT 13 12 SLEEPING
ROOMS, 13 APARTMENTS.
SO UPSTAIRS EACH ONE OF THOSE
ROOMS ARE PRETTY MUCH COUNTED
ALMOST LIKE AN INDIVIDUAL.
YEAH, EACH ONE.
SO THERE'S FOUR UNITS ON EACH
FLOOR.
YEAH.
SO THESE PEOPLE WILL NOT BE
ABLE TO GET INTO THAT AREA
THAT'S NOT LIKE A GENERAL
SHARED KITCHEN.
IT'S ALSO IT'S A TONE UNIT IN
THE BASEMENT.
>> YES.
I JUST DON'T I THINK I THINK WE
NEED TO LOOK AT THAT CODE TO
MAKE SURE SPEAK TO IT.
YEAH.
YOU JUST VERIFIED I JUST REALLY
THINK IT'S A MOOT POINT.
THIS WOULD BE SUPPLEMENTAL
EGRESS ONLY IT WOULDN'T HAVE TO
HAVE THE SO REQUIREMENT.
>> IT SOUNDS LIKE THEY KNOW
THEY WOULD HAVE TO THEY
WOULDN'T HAVE TO PUT IN THOSE
PLATFORMS AND THE THE WHOLE
EMERGENCY EXIT REFUGE CLAUSE IS
KIND DOESN'T REALLY APPLY SINCE
THEY'RE SPRINKLING THE ENTIRE
BUILDING AND I ASSUME THAT ALSO
INCLUDES YOU'LL HAVE SMOKE
DETECTION AS A FIRE ALARM.
YEAH.
SINCE IT HAS A COMMON HALLWAY
EACH ROOM EACH SLEEPING ROOM
HAS TO HAVE A HORN STROBE
THERE'S AN ALARM SYSTEM, A
MONITORED ALARM SYSTEM AND THEN
OBVIOUSLY EVERY ROOM
SPRINKLERED YOU WORK ON THE
REST OF THE BUILDING TO THE
REST OF THE APARTMENTS THE
BUILDING OVER BEING DONE OR
JUST THE BASEMENT.
NO WE'RE WE'RE REMODELING THE
WHOLE PLACE SO UPDATING
EVERYTHING ELECTRICAL,
PLUMBING, HEATING
SO WE MAKE
THE MOTION TO TABLE ABLE TO I'M
NOT EVEN SURE YOU DON'T NEED
EMERIL'S AS I SAID YOU SAID
THIS HAS BEEN A BIT OF A
PLANNING PERMITTING STAGE AND
NOT WITHOUT REVIEW.
>> YEAH OK.
I WOULD THAT I WOULD SAY TABLE
IT OR VIEW IT AND THEN IF YOU
HAVE TO COME BACK COME BACK.
BUT RIGHT NOW I WOULD SAY TABLE
THAT REVIEW AND THEN COME BACK
IF YOU HAVE TO.
OK ON THE MOTION WRITE DOWN THE
RESOLUTION LOOKING DOWN THIS
RIGHT DOWN THE TABLE MOTION TO
TABLE UNTIL FURTHER REVIEW
RIGHT.
DO WE GET ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION OR DO WE GET
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO ALLOW
THIS TO BE TRUE?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
WE GOT RIGHT DOWN FIRST TIME
WORKS FOR THE REVIEW
OF THE
WITH REGARD TO SPRINKLE THESE
JUST START WITH THAT ALL STUFF
THEN IN THE CASE OF VBA TWENTY
FIVE OH OH ONE THE APPEAL
OF THE BOARD OFFICIALS DECISION
THAT THE MOTION BE TABLED SO
THAT THE CITY CAN FURTHER
REVIEW CODE WITH REGARD TO AN
ADDED SPRINKLER SYSTEM AND FIRE
ALARMS IN THE BASEMENT AND YOU
RECOMMEND I HAVE A QUICK
QUESTION ON THAT DO THEY HAVE
TO BRING IT BACK HERE WHEN THEY
GET THE INFORMATION OR THEY CAN
THEY IF THEY DON'T NEED IT
THERE AND SAID WE NEED TO BRING
BACK I JUST FINE KNOW THEY'RE
NOT COMING BACK IF THEY NEED
AGRARIANS TO GET BACK ON THE
AGENDA.
DO WE NEED TO ADD THAT IN OR IS
THAT IMPLICIT AT THE TABLE
THAT'S AND PLUS BECAUSE THEY
HAD TO REVIEW IT AND THEN OK,
UNDERSTANDING
THEY MIGHT NOT
HAVE TO BRING IT BACK.
NO, BUT THAT'S THAT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING.
>> WE HAVE A SECOND ON THE
MOTION A SECOND THOSE IN FAVOR
OF TABLE IT I SUPPOSE YOU KNOW
WHAT IS THANK YOU.
NO THERE ARE NEW PILLS FOR
TODAY.
NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS OLD
BUSINESS NOTHING.
LISTEN FOR OLD BUSINESS
ADDITIONAL NEW BUSINESS NO
RUBINI ANY REPORT ON THE
VARIANCE WE TABLED FROM THE
MEETINGS AND GO TO ANY MORE
ACTION ON THAT?
THERE'S BEEN NO COMMUNICATION
FROM THE PLUMBING CONTRACTOR.
OK, MOTION TO ADJOURN.
MOTION TO ADJOURN.
SECOND WAS A VERY HIGH RETURN
TO A FIVE